Running Examples on AtomSim
############################

The RISC-V Atom project consists of a wide range of examples programs out-of-the-box to test. These examples programs 
reside in `RVATOM/sw/examples` directory.

Switch to examples directory

.. code-block:: bash

  $ cd sw/examples

Lets run the classical "hello World!" example first!

Hello World Example 
********************
The source code for the *hello-world* example resides in the ``hello-asm`` directory. You can have a look at the source 
code. First we need to compile the hello world example with our RISC-V gcc cross-compiler. For this purpose, use the 
provided makefile as following.

.. code-block:: bash

  $ make soctarget=atombones ex=hello-asm sim=1 compile

The above command should generate a ``hello.elf`` file in the ``hello-asm`` directory. Now fire up atomsim and 
provide the generated elf file as argument.

.. tip::
  ``soctarget=atombones`` in the above command can be skipped if AtomSim is already built. The SoC target will be automatically detected from 
  the AtomSim executable.

.. code-block:: bash

  $ atomsim hello-asm/hello.elf
  Hello World!
    -- from Assembly

Alternatively, use ``make run`` to run the example as follows

.. code-block:: bash

  $ make soctarget=atombones ex=hello-asm run


We can compile other examples also in the similar fashion by using the following syntax:

.. code-block:: bash

  $ make soctarget=<TARGET> ex=<EXAMPLE> sim=1 compile
  $ make soctarget=<TARGET> ex=<EXAMPLE> run

.. note::
  Run ``$ make help`` to get more information about supported targets and examples.

Banner Example 
***************

.. code-block:: bash

  $ make target=atombones ex=banner compile
  $ atomsim banner/banner.elf


Output:

.. code-block:: text

  **** RISC-V Atom Bootloader ****
  bootmode: 0x1
  Jumping to RAM
  --------------------------------

                    .';,.           ....;;;.  
                  .ll,:o,                ':c,. 
                  .dd;co'                  .cl,  
                  .:o:;,.                     'o:  
                  co.                          .oc  
                ,o'          .coddoc.          'd,  
                lc         .lXMMMMMMXl.         ll  
                .o:         ;KMMMMMMMMK,         :o. 
                .o:         'OMMMMMMMMO.         :o. 
                co.         .o0XNNX0o.         .oc  
                .o:           ..''..           :o.  
                  'o:                          :o'  
                  .lc.                      .ll.  
                    ,lc'                  'cl,   
                      'cc:,..        ..,:c:'   
                          .;::::;;;;::::;.    
                                ....        
      ____  _________ _______    __         __                 
      / __ \/  _/ ___// ____/ |  / /  ____ _/ /_____  ____ ___  
    / /_/ // / \__ \/ /    | | / /  / __ `/ __/ __ \/ __ `__ \ 
    / _, _// / ___/ / /___  | |/ /  / /_/ / /_/ /_/ / / / / / /      
  /_/ |_/___//____/\____/  |___/   \__,_/\__/\____/_/ /_/ /_/  
  /=========By: Saurabh Singh (saurabh.s99100@gmail.com)====/

  CPU      : RISC-V Atom @ 50000000 Hz
  Arch     : RV32IC - little endian
  CODE RAM : 0x20000000 (40960 bytes)
  DATA RAM : 0x2000a000 (8192 bytes)
  Exiting...
  EBreak hit at 0x2000007c
  Exiting... (return code: 0)


How to compile and run all examples?
*************************************
Instead of testing all examples one-by-one, we can compile and run all examples as follows.

.. code-block:: bash

  $ make run-all

atomsim-runexamples script internally uses the same makefile that we used earlier, with the run-all target.
Therefore we can alternatively get the same result by using the make command (in ``RVATOM/sw/examples`` directory).

.. code-block:: bash

  $ make soctarget=atombones run-all


Using Atomsim Vuart
********************
By default AtomSim relays the output of the running application on stdout. But, in this mode of operation, user cannot provide any input to the running program. Alternatively, Atomsim can estabilish a two-way communication with AtomSim through a linux serial port. This functionality is provided by the Vuart module in Atomsim.

Generating virtual serial ports
================================
A pair of connected serial ports can be generated by usng the provided ``atomsim-gen-vports`` script as following.

.. code-block:: bash

  $ atomsim-gen-vports

This will generate a pair of new virtual serial ports in ``/dev/pts`` and links them together using the 
``socat`` linux command. This means that whatever is sent to port-1 is recieved at port-2 and vice versa.
Further, this script also generates symlinks to these generated ports in the ``RVATOM`` directory 
as ``simport`` and ``userport``.

Interacting with Stdout and Stdin over virtual ports
=====================================================
Open a new terminal (say terminal-2) and run the screen command as following

.. code-block:: bash

  $ screen $RVATOM/userport 9600

And on the other terminal (terminal-1) run atomsim as following

.. code-block:: bash

  $ atomsim hello-asm/hello.s --vuart=$RVATOM/simport

You should now be able to see the output on the terminal-2.

To close the screen command press ``ctrl+a``, type ``:quit`` and press ``enter``.


Adding New Examples
====================

To add a new example to the existing framework, simply create a directory under the ``RVATOM/sw/examples`` directory.

.. code-block:: bash

  $ mkdir newexample


Next, put your source files under this directory. 

.. code-block:: c

  $ cat newexample.c
  #include <stdio.h>
  void main()
  {
      char hello[] = "New Example\n";
      printf(hello);
      return;
  }


Finally add a new file named ``Makefile.include`` in the same directory which defines the name of the source files and 
executable file as follows.  


.. code-block:: bash

  $ cat Makefile.include
  src_files = newexample.c
  executable = newexample.elf


That's it! Now you can use the same compile and run commands as discussed earlier to run this example.


